Post open-sauce wrapup blogpost (#12)
PawprintPrototyping/pawprintprototyping.org-hugo: content/english/blog/2024-06-open-sauce.md

---
title: "Pawprint Goes to OpenSauce (again!)"
date: 2024-06-22
author: rechner
image : "images/blog/blog-post-2.jpg"
bg_image: "images/blog/2024/paw-simon/banner.jpg"
categories: ["Hackerspace News"]
tags: ["Projects Showcase", "OpenSauce"]
description: "A look at the projects and experiences of Maker Youtube's coolest place to show things off"
draft: false
type: "post"
---

June 15th marked Pawprint Prototyping's return to [OpenSauce](https://opensauce.live) - the whimsical convention

> for Science and Makers YouTubers, and brainchild of [William Osman](https://www.youtube.com/@williamosman).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for Science and Maker YouTubers, and brainchild of [William Osman](https://www.youtube.com/@williamosman).
```

idk this might still not be right

A menagerie of members proudly presented these fine projects at our exhibitor table:

* [The Badge!](#badge)
* [Return of the ARM](#return-of-the-arm)
* [Pirate Box Badge](#pirate-box-badge)

> * [Long Range Thermal Imaging](#long-range-thermal-imaging)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Long Range Thermal Imaging Camera](#long-range-thermal-imaging-camera)
```
I'm assuming the anchor link is auto-generated by the H2 markdown

get from Amazon), with custom-built targets moved around by robots.  A pair of side targets flail about on simple 3d-printed
carriages on 80/20 frame railing, and the motion for the center target is a fickle Thermo Fisher F3 robot and C500-B
controller from the late 90's.  Your score is displayed on the largest 7-segment flip-digit displays we could source
from Poland, and the game is started by entering your name on a VT520 terminal, on which the day's top scores are also
shown.  In homage to the event's change in venue to Cow Palace, Mojake redesigned the side targets to feature a laser-engraved
"missing person" milk carton of a [boykisser](https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/oooooo-you-like-boys-ur-a-boykisser), and a cute
dairy cow for the center robot.  The aesthetics of the entire project is a culmination of a couple of things we really
appreciate from technology of a particular era: the loud and clunky mechanical action of flip digits and
chunky relays, the ring of a bell, the warm glow of a CRT terminal, beige paint and plastics everywhere, and a prominent
stack light to tie the whole thing together.

> The whole show is run by a pair of Raspberry Pi's and an embarrassing number of serial adapters.  One Raspberry Pi,

Reviewer: >an embarrassing number of serial adapters

Well stated.

> The whole show is run by a pair of Raspberry Pi's and an embarrassing number of serial adapters.  One Raspberry Pi,
> close to the robot controller, runs the majority of the game logic, and a second was dedicated to the flip digits and
> RGB matrix display, mostly due to limitations in driving that matrix quickly enough.  Communications between the targets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The whole show is run by a pair of Raspberry Pi's and an embarrassing number of serial adapters.  One Raspberry Pi,
close to the robot controller, runs the majority of the game logic. A second was dedicated to the flip digits and
RGB matrix display, mostly due to limitations in driving that matrix quickly enough.  Communications between the targets
```

happens all on the same RS485 bus, as do the communications to the flip digits.

The software (which I _definitely_ didn't
finish writing in the hotel room the night before the event last year) is all event-driven, utilizing dedicated handlers
for each component of the game, and communications brokered using MQTT.  That design decision bought us a number of
advantages: developing and debugging one particular component, like the code to enable targets, can be easily facilitated
by publishing test messages on the fly.  Once the game expanded to needing a separate Pi to control the RGB matrix,
separating that component over a network was super easy.  After each of the component services were written, all of the
gameplay can be orchestrated by publishing to a few simple targets to kick everything into motion, and made the state
diagrams easy to understand and manage.

<video src="/images/blog/2024/open-sauce/gameplay-1.mp4" controls="controls" class="img-responsive"></video>

After loading in everything Thursday, we spend most of Friday assembling the booth and making sure the ARM, as our most

> complicated assembly, worked flawlessly.  A few of our neighboring exhibitors played a few games Friday alongside us,
> and We even made a detailed run book this year, so if all of the boffins with arcane 90's robot controller knowledge
> were unable to make it Saturday, our other members could carry the torch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
complicated assembly, worked flawlessly.  A few of our neighboring exhibitors played a few games Friday alongside us.
We even made a detailed run book this year, so if all of the boffins with arcane 90's robot controller knowledge
were unable to make it Saturday, our other members could carry the torch.
```

sound boards, speakers, extremely rare and expensive vintage synthesizers, the whole nine-yards.

Unfortunately all of that
stability comes to a deafening fizzle thanks to nature's tendency to invent idiots who suddenly believe they're qualified
to go throwing switches on the generator's control panel. Just a few seconds into that final game, a brown out due to
improper generator operation sent the arm crashing into the target controller on its back, and the address decoding
circuit in the memory controller to send a logfile write, which normally goes to battery-backed RAM, destined instead
to to the flash chips storing unreplaceable firmware and calibration values.

<img class="img-responsive" src="/images/blog/2024/open-sauce/broken-bot-6.jpg" title="The robot controller's console now only boots to immediately kernel panic">

Last year in the course of learning more about our controller, I'd attempted to take a backup of the internal flash
on the controller, but after revisiting those backups I'm totally disheartened to learn that 1 of the 4 flash chip dumps
is empty.

> If you know anyone with this era of robot arm controller, that could be instrumental in getting our project working
> again, please drop us an email here at info [at] pawprintprototyping.org.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you know anyone with this era of robot arm controller, it could be instrumental in getting our project working
again. Please drop us an email at info [at] pawprintprototyping.org.
```

## Pirate Box Badge

<img class="img-responsive" src="/images/blog/2024/open-sauce/pirate-box.jpg" title="PirateFox Badge, the Wifi router and SneakerNet dead drop you can wear around your neck">

This [#BadgeLife](https://defcon.social/tags/badgelife) entry for DEF CON, the world's largest hacking conference, was
designed by Geo and hosts a wide variety of computer networking abilities.  It's also a cute fox with zero depth-perception.

> ## Long Range Thermal Imaging

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Long Range Thermal Imaging Camera
```

<img class="img-responsive" src="/images/blog/2024/open-sauce/thermal-camera.jpg" title="This ITAR-restricted bundle of joy can see hot things from very far away">
<img class="img-responsive" src="/images/blog/2024/open-sauce/thermal-camera-2.jpg" title="A transparent look at the fursuiting experience: yes, it's hot in there, and no, we can't see a thing in any spectrum.">

This thermal camera, built to be mounted to the outside of a building for surveillance purposes, was reverse engineered
by Geo to be controlled by a playstation game controller.  Are you hot or not?  Finally, science has the answer.

## Water Plants Game

<img class="img-responsive" src="/images/blog/2024/open-sauce/water-plants.png" title="Water plants watering dude">

In this game by Pawprint member Dingo, help our friend get the chores of watering the plants around the water plant so

> they can get back to their favorite activity: napping.

Reviewer: ![image](https://github.com/PawprintPrototyping/pawprintprototyping.org-hugo/assets/1631158/12d4746e-bd55-4d12-b194-a647072742ef)
![image](https://github.com/PawprintPrototyping/pawprintprototyping.org-hugo/assets/1631158/1c2794ca-a082-47ee-aac8-29c3ac9080d3)
![image](https://github.com/PawprintPrototyping/pawprintprototyping.org-hugo/assets/1631158/24ea2820-4b26-4d5d-b6cd-ac74b35910ac)

Here's some full screenshots from the [itch.io page](https://doomsdaydingo.itch.io/water-plants)
